Chapter 0

The trade-school I attended to learn how to write software gave me a shirt that says, 'codeing in the new literacy'.  The phrase always struck me.  
The pattern "<X> is the new <Y>" I find cliche, emblematic of a modern culture that has become so uprooted that new-ness has become an acceptable short-hand for quality.  But literacy...  
Literacy has gravitas.  Literacy has played a significant role, not just in the present moment of our current culture but deep into history.  It is hard, even in a thought experiment, to really see what our lives would be like without the written word --it's impact has been so pervasive and so profound.
Thus, on the face, it seems the height of modern impertinence to hear that our new <whatever> could stand on such a stage and displace anything of such magnitude.  And yet... in the case of codeing I can not discount the statement as a hollow boast.  This doubt, this uncertainty, is the front door to a powerful mystery.  

A core axium of this work is that communication is fundamentally limited by the joint capacity of the sender and receiver to syncranize.  By extension, that a full understanding of communication necessecarily entails an understanding of this syncranicity.  And by derivation, that one's understanding of this syncranicity may be refined by observing how variations impact communications.

In the end, it isn't the words which make language (written+spoken) so impactful.  It is the people who use those words, and the people who are moved by them.  The power to share in the mind of another via a 'primative-telepathy' such as it were, but a telepathy limited by an ability to empahize.  
The power of literacy was to expand this sharing outside the current momment, so that it may stretch accross both time and space.  This simple change wrought a cascade of consequences, not the lease of which, I would argue, was a paradigm shift of communication being understood as something that happens mind<=>mind rather than person<=>person.  Such abstraction created space for ideas about what it means to syncranize with minds so removed from our own, and techniques by which we could perfect such acts.  It staggers me to contemplate.  
Now the power of code is allowing us to expand the audience of our communications, no longer limited just to other minds but now also constituencies of the material universe.  In the same way that 

The pattern suggests that this creates a new space which will need to be filled.  


